The Syrian state news agency SANA reported on Wednesday, citing commander Hassan Abdel Ghani, that al-Sharaa has been named president until elections are held.

Al-Sharaa was also authorised to form a temporary legislative council for the transitional phase, which will carry out its task until a new constitution is adopted.

All military factions in Syria, including Syria’s army and security forces, as well as al-Sharaa’s own Hayat Tahrir al-Sham (HTS), were dissolved, as was the country’s constitution, and al-Assad’s Baath party – which had ruled the country for more than 60 years prior to al-Assad’s overthrow.BEIJING -- China's exports to over 160 countries and regions saw growth in 2024, according to the General Administration of Customs.


The country's exports grew 7.1 percent year-on-year, reaching 25.45 trillion yuan ($3.55 trillion) last year, marking the eighth consecutive year of growth, according to the latest data released by the GAC.

Exports to Brazil, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia increased by 23.3 percent, 19.2 percent and 18.2 percent year-on-year, respectively. Exports to ASEAN countries and nations participating in the Belt and Road Initiative grew by 13.4 percent and 9.6 percent, respectively. Meanwhile, exports to traditional markets, such as the European Union and the United States, rose by 4.3 percent and 6.1 percent, respectively.

Lyu Daliang, a GAC official, said that despite growing uncertainties and challenges, China's exports -- characterized by a wide range of products -- are expected to remain resilient and dynamic, supported by both incremental and existing policies.The president of La Liga, Javier Tebas, has warned that football cannot afford to overlook the threat posed by A22, whose latest proposal for a European Super League was unveiled in December.

Uefa is currently considering how to respond after A22 launched plans for a Unify League, which follows two previous failed concepts. One option is to authorise the plan and let clubs decide whether to jump ship from the Champions League and other existing continental tournaments. There is little evidence A22 could spark a meaningful breakaway despite holding talks with a number of clubs, but Tebas is concerned that a lack of understanding may help an “elitist” idea gain traction.NEW DELHI: The Rashtrapati Bhavan on Friday  ..


According to Canstar calculations, one 0.25pp cut would give someone with a $600,000 debt and 25 years remaining on their loan $92 dollars back to their budget immediately if the banks passed it on in full.

The NAB move comes a day after Westpac brought forward the timing of the first rate cut to February, and means all four are now united in their expectations after inflation data moderated more quickly than RBA expected over the holiday period.

NAB home lending executive Denton Pugh said “many Australians have been doing it tough – so a cut early in the new year will be welcomed. As always, we remain ready to help our customers, get in touch with your bank if you need assistance.”

“While Australia’s labour market remains strong, we do not see current conditions as inflationary”Recovery divers were focusing on salvaging the aircraft and parts from the Potomac River on Friday as investigators examined the deadly collision involving a passenger jet and an Army helicopter, Washington fire officials said.

Among the questions facing investigators in the aftermath of the worst U.S. air crash in 20 years was whether the helicopter had flown outside its designated path as it approached Reagan National Airport on Wednesday evening. Four people briefed on the matter but not authorized to speak about it publicly said that the helicopter appeared to have been flying higher than air traffic control had approved.MOSCOW, January 31. /TASS/. BRICS is not discussing the creation of a common currency, Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov said, adding that the association is discussing the formation of common investment platforms.

When commenting on US President Donald Trump’s threats to impose customs duties on goods from BRICS member states should the alliance move away from the dollar, Peskov said that "BRICS has not and is not discussing the creation of a common currency." "BRICS is speaking about the creation of new joint investment platforms that will allow investments in third countries, mutual investments and so on," he told a briefing.

Peskov noted that Russian President Vladimir Putin said about it earlier.

"Apparently experts should [explain] the BRICS agenda to Mr. Trump in more detail," he added.

BRICS was founded in 2006 by Brazil, Russia, India, and China, with South Africa joining in 2011. On January 1, 2024, Egypt, Ethiopia, Iran, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates became full-fledged members. On January 6, 2025 Indonesia also joined the group.

NEW DELHI: The Lok Sabha on Monday erupted into chaos after leader of opposition Rahul Gandhi mocked the Centre and claimed that if it had taken economic policies seriously, then the government would not have had to send foreign minister S Jaishankar to the US to get an invitation for Prime Minister Narendra Modi for Donald Trump's swearing-in ceremony.

Union parliamentary affairs minister Kiren Rijiju countered Rahul's remarks against PM Modi over Trump's inaugural ceremony and said that the leader of opposition should not make such serious unsubstantial statements.