Gov. Gavin Newsom came into office in 2018 confronting one of the deadliest and most destructive fires in the state’s history: the Camp fire. Even before he was sworn in, Mr. Newsom accompanied Donald Trump, then the president, and Jerry Brown, then the governor, in inspecting a blaze that killed 85 people and consumed over 153,000 acres around the Butte County town of Paradise.

On Friday, more than six years later, Mr. Newsom will once again greet Mr. Trump as the president comes to Los Angeles to view the aftermath of the latest devastating wildfires that have swept California.

These new fires — in the Pacific Palisades section of Los Angeles and in Altadena — serve as a reminder that Mr. Newsom’s tenure as governor has been defined by catastrophe and crisis, whether natural or man-made: fires, mudslides, atmospheric rivers, the Covid pandemic, the at-times violent protests against police brutality after the murder of George Floyd.


“It’s mind-boggling the number of natural disasters and otherwise he has to deal with,” said Anthony Rendon, who served as speaker of the California Assembly from 2016 to 2023. “It is something that has bracketed — and maybe even defined — his time in office as governor.”

A house is covered with flames and smoke as the sun sets. 
The fires that destroyed homes in Pacific Palisades and Altadena serve as a reminder that Mr. Newsom’s tenure as governor has been defined by catastrophe and crisis.Credit...Mark Abramson for The New York Times
But the challenge of the Palisades and Eaton fires, both in extinguishing them and in overseeing the rebuilding of entire neighborhoods in the most populous county in the nation, may be his greatest test yet.

And it has long-term implications for any political career Mr. Newsom might pursue when his term ends in 2026 (he is barred by law from seeking a third term). He has made no secret of his interest in potentially running for president in 2028, and Democrats say his successes and failures in the months ahead will be central to how he presents himself — and how opponents assail him — should he run.

Already it has put him in the position of battling with Mr. Trump, who, as in the aftermath of the Camp fire, has levied inaccurate claims about California policies. (Mr. Newsom sought to push back on some of the false information, creating a page on his campaign website providing “California Fire Facts.”)

In an interview with Sean Hannity of Fox News on Wednesday, Mr. Trump assailed Mr. Newsom and California for water and forest management policies that he claimed were responsible for the fires, but which state officials and fire experts said had no relevance to the Los Angeles disaster. Mr. Trump threatened to withhold disaster aid from California unless it changed how it manages its water.